What should make your
Spidey senses go off?
That's always how I think about
it when I'm reviewing a PR.
If I'm evaluating an open source library,
component library or something,
there's certain things that
I can look at in code.
I don't even need to test it, and
I know it's gonna be a problem.
I still test it, I still go and check,
especially if I'm opening up an issue or
something or
I'm giving feedback to my team.
But my Spidey senses are going off a lot
of the time when I see certain things.
And so
I would love especially as tech leads for
you to kind of gain that
intuition of like, I saw that.
I thought it might be an issue.
So I opened it up on a preview URL or
I I pulled down their branch,
I opened it up in Storybook, and yeah,
sure enough, my intuition was right.
There's an accessibility issue here.
You can get excellent code review
feedback if you can do that quickly.
So some of the things that you should
eventually, it takes practice, but
you hopefully will spot from a mile away,
and then have the curiosity to dig in and
follow a regular testing workflow,
which we will do in a few minutes.
And we wanna bring kindness
to these situations, right?
We don't wanna be judgmental.
We want people to work with us.
We wanna work with them.
And that's how we can make
this more successful.
It's like, how to win friends and
influence people that kind of thinking,
it's like maybe a little cliché but
it's not always fun to have
someone give you feedback on a PR.
I don't know if you're like me and kind of
like one negative comment can just kind of
ruin your day, so we want to be helpful.
We're all on the same team here, so
form labels made with space Spans.
Instantly, I know that's a problem
because I have a text input.
I can use that text input if I'm
not using a screen reader, but
if it's marked up this way with span for
the label text instead of a label element,
I mean I have no idea
what that field is for.
I might be lucky enough where if a field
has a placeholder or I guess placeholder.
Web browsers and assistive technologies
like over time have learned that
placeholder is better than nothing.
So it actually,
a placeholder will put a name onto
an input if there's nothing else.
But we don't wanna rely on that.
Placeholders go away when
you type in the field.
So it's like, what was I typing?
So we want a visible text
label whenever possible.
So the easy fix with this one is
just change that span to a label.
Put an HTML4 in React, or a for
attribute in vanilla HTML that points
to the ID of first name on that input.
Pair those together.
You will know that they're paired
when you can click on the label and
it will send focus into the input.
So you increase the click target area and
you're telling a screen reader user
exactly what this field is for.
Because placeholder might not
even be the same as the label.
It could be an example of
what they're gonna type in.
And it goes away when you start typing.
So that's a cognitive issue,
like remembering,
having to remember what that field is,
that is an accessibility issue.
Could be a WCAG violation even, but, yeah,
so like that one I can usually spot and
you'll start to see it too.
There are two ways to label or
multiple ways to label an input.
You can do what's called implicit
labeling, where the label wraps the input.
And if it has text in there, text content,
it will automatically assign that
cuz they're paired implicitly.
The explicit is the foreign
ID attribute paring.
You can also use aria label
attribute on the input, but
that won't make visible text.
So we always prefer
visible text when you can.
And we're gonna dive way deeper into
accessible names in the next section.
So custom controls.
Anytime I see a custom control that
could be a default HTML element,
I'm gonna dig in and go test it.
This has historically been a problem
because form controls that we wanna
customize, like radio buttons and check
boxes, they've been really hard to style.
So there's been some accessibility
anti-patterns over the years of like, wow,
we made it look really pretty,
but you can't reach it or
operate it with the keyboard even.
So I'm usually going to
test those recommending,
if we can use a core input
that's more accessible that,
might be customized, but it's one
that is repeatable and centralized,
or I might even recommend like
the default HTML form element.
But we are in a golden age of
web development right now.
It's really exciting.
We have a lot of new CSS features.
Things are getting easier to style.
And I have a talk resource included in
here with my buddy Jason Langstorff and
Una Cravats.
I think she changed her name to Kravanov.
She works on the Google Chrome Dev Rel
team, and they have this video from
Jason's, learn with Json show about
what's new in HTML and CSS in 2023.
And it's really cool.
There's a lot going on.
So this is getting better, but we can't
always use the newest, shiniest thing.
So sometimes custom controls can
be full of accessibility issues.
Colors, contrast, sometimes you can
just tell by looking at colors when you
look at a design that they're too faint.
This can be programmatically determined so
you can sample foreground and
background colors.
There's a ratio that you can calculate,
but
you can start to spot it with your eyes if
you can see the screen some of the time.
So I can usually tell if
something's like way off, but
automated tooling can catch some
of the contrast issues too.
So when I run like the AKS browser
extension, we'll see that in a little bit.
That will surface contrast
issues quite often.
That's a huge one.
Modals and layers like any time you have
a custom modal, something that opens over
the other content, there's a background
layer that grays everything out.
Those kind of handmade modals can
sometimes not have accessibility built in,
so they might not have focus,
might not send focus into it, or
restore it when they close.
Doing like a keyboard trap intentionally
to keep you in the modal layer.
Sometimes that's not present.
Using a dialogue role on the modal
dialogue and focusable and
labelled buttons and calls to action.
Fortunately, there are a lot of
really great component libraries now,
like chakra headless UI, they have
a lot of accessibility baked in, so
this has gotten a lot better if
you're using some of those libraries.
But you wanna test them.
Don't take their word for it, test it.
Then there's non-modal
dialogues that are similar.
The background's not grayed out usually,
but we still want to move focus into those
layers when they open, make them keyboard
reachable and operable and all that.
Sometimes skip links to get to and
from non-modal dialogs can be nice.
So here's the one eye is
like always a red flag.
I can always spot this one.
An on click event on a div.
Just, that's it.
And especially when it's like
in a modal or in a component and
it's like the submit, it's not like
an extra click handler wrapping the thing,
it's like the main call to action
is a div with a click event on it.
I know that's gonna be a problem.
So it should be a button.
And there's all kinds of
reasons why this happens.
Sometimes it's like you have old
style code, like old Sass or
something that everyone's afraid to touch.
I mean, you deal with the constraints.
Like, if you have to make
this into an aria div button,
like we'll see in the next section.
Do the best you can.
But like the goal is to swap those out for
buttons cuz it's way less work.
Was there a question?
>> Yeah, around colors,
is there a special color palette or
an accessible color palette to
avoid issues with choosing colors?
>> Yeah, there is a lot of color
palette generators and things online.
We talked about color quite a bit in
the web app accessibility workshop,
and I think it's that set of
slides I have a bunch of links and
things to read about with color.
But I think if you search for
accessible color power generator,
you might find some stuff like that.
There is an article from stripe,
interestingly enough,
where they wrote about making a design
system that had color contrast built in.
That's very cool.
It's super technical and
geeky and I love it.
So if you just search stripe
accessibility design system contrast or
something you'll find that one.
But yeah, there's a lot of really great
resources out there for that kinda thing,
question.
>> Speaking of striping colors their
home page H1, it has this cool gradient
overlay effect on it but the color
is actually some dark gray, right?
So I'm wondering how would
a contrast checker check that?
Because visually it's like red and
blue and green or whatever, but
the computer value is actually gray.
Is it checked against the visual color or
the actual computed color?
>> That's a great question.
Yeah, it does make sense.
And what can make it even more complicated
is sometimes those gradients are animated
and they move so
like what color you sampling?
Yeah, contrast checkers usually
just skip those, like X.
I used to work on it and
that went into the can't tell fork,
it would be like nope, can't tell it goes
into this category called Needs Review,
which is like the computer can't
tell if it should be pass or fail.
So we're gonna put it into this queue for
people to review manually.
So, yeah,
that one's tough because it might have a
different color value in different areas.
So I guess if I was testing that
manually and providing feedback,
I'd probably sample a bunch of colors and
kind of take the worst case scenario.
Yeah, that's a pretty involved test.
Of course a computer can't tell.
Although I do think there are some tools
now that use computer vision as opposed to
JavaScript to evaluate that so
they can sample pixels.
Events is a tool company
that's like a new startup,
they do stuff around that and so
there are new approaches to that, but
it is pretty hard and
it's computationally expensive.
So to run acts to test
contrast in that way,
as you'll see later on when we get
to automation, some of that stuff
you wanna only run in your page
level tests, not in your unit tests.